so you guys like the ultimate main quest
in the ultimate Dharma is Frodo in the
ring Frodo in the ring you guys need to
go to Mordor and like drop the ring and
it's like it's painful and it sucks and
it's terrible and you're gonna be
thirsty and you're willing to do it
because it's the main quest because
that's your tournament
so this is why I love doing this right
because all of you guys are wrong and
none of that helps anyone I mean sorry
all of you guys are right
sorry and none of that helps anyone so
like we can talk about values and
desires and it doesn't help anyone like
okay so you guys say like okay it's
internal I completely agree higher
purpose completely agree desires her
biological drives okay fine desire is
one like all of that stuff is true and
it doesn't help anyone so here's that
here's the answer okay so I I do think
that desires are external and and values
are internal but values are what drive
you to action but both can drive you to
action but values generally speaking
drive you towards action in spite of
suffering and desires rarely do but you
can desire something and enough enough
and it can kind of drive you to action
anyway despite negativity so what the
yogi said is that desires have their
origins in the invidious in the India's
or the sense organs so if it originally
comes from a sense organ then it's a
desire so let's just think about that
what does that mean so let's think about
I want a hot dog
is that a desire or a value right why
like you go can we all agree that it's a
desire right even if you don't accept so
forget the answer that I gave you guys
just think about it for a second if I'm
walking down the street and I want a hot
dog like where what is that that's a
desire right like we don't think about
like when we think about like what are
your values like when you have a mission
statement from an NGO or a non-profit
eating hot dogs is not gonna be on there
right like that's not the kind of thing
that goes into a mission stay because
values go into mission statements not
eating hot dogs if I want a particular
car where does that come from value or
desire
right okay so then we get into this
issue of materialism so are all Matar
all desires material and I'm talking
about hot dogs and cars and that is not
necessarily so does that mean that all
desires are material so let's say that
I'm walking down the street and I see a
guy my age and a girl roughly my age
holding hands sitting on a park bench
and then I say to myself I want that
that's not material right so it's that a
desire or a value ah ah see now we're
getting we're getting tricky right so
this is exactly why we're having this
conversation
so the yogi said if it comes from the
injurious it's actually a desire so not
all desires have to be materialistic and
so if we think about something like
loneliness so like loneliness and a
feeling like a like if you're missing
companionship that doesn't come from a
particular sense organ right that
feeling comes from within indriyas ind
rry okay so the first thing to
understand is that if you're thinking
about your goals in life and the the
goals that you set for yourself where do
they originate do they originate and
things that you saw did you walk down
the street and see your friend who used
to weigh 400 pounds and now weighs 160
and then you say to yourself man I want
to lose weight
that doesn't sound materialistic it
doesn't sound bad it sounds like Noble
it sounds like a good goal right like
any doctor can get behind that
and yet what happens when you try to
pursue that goal right like what happens
you fail right why because it's a desire
so it's a good desire desires don't have
to be evil even if you look at someone
eating a salad you're like man I should
eat more salad still a desire so the key
is to find values because values drive
your internal like like that's where
motivation comes from its fulfillment of
values and the problem is that most
people don't even understand what their
values are so like if you're like I'm
just gonna you know I'm gonna have a
very poor sense of what twitch chat is
but I'm just gonna think about the
person that I work with who like is the
most desperate so if you're 24
unemployed living at home playing video
games all day that's the person that I
started streaming for by the way that
person you think about the goals that
you set up they're all based on desires
none of them are based on values that's
the problem you think about financial
independence wonderful you think about
moving out of the house also wonderful
you think about you know wanting this
and wanting that and not wanting this
and not wanting that looking this way
feeling this way not being overweight
eating healthy like all wonderful goals
all desires all desires because they're
based in the invidious so that's not
what naturally motivates behavior like
you can you can motivate behavior
through desires but if you really want
to move forward you need a Dharma
because the Dharma tells you that you
can't afford to fail because it's bigger
than you it's a duty it's a
responsibility and we see this because
the cool thing is when I talk to that 24
year old or 19 year old or 31 year old
and we see how far they're willing to go
for a friend it's amazing they're not
willing to do anything for themselves
but if it comes to a friend like if your
friend is sick and they need like
nutritious healthy food
then they'll do it because that's your
Dharma right helping a friend is a
Dharma that you can get behind that
doesn't have to do with a desire you
guys see that like it doesn't come from
the sense organs helping your friend is
not like you're not walking down the
street you're like man that guy in the
car next to me he's carrying a bag and
that looks like chicken noodle soup and
he's carrying it for a friend of his I
should really do that right that's not
how that works that comes from within
that's a value so the biggest problem is
that the things that you're the things
that drive you forward our desires and
desires are not going to stand up that
once again like this is coming full
circle when I was when we were talking
about progress or growth you're thinking
about a positive thing right so you're
like I'm gonna eat a salad every day and
I'm gonna lose weight and I'm gonna be
healthy and that feels good like that's
progress that's growth that's what we
want but when you actually do it you're
not able to do it because it's actually
difficult to do and it hurts like every
bite of romaine lettuce like hurts you
right it hurts you deep within your
mouth because like that's what it's like
and it's not worth it that's the basic
problem desires are not worth the
suffering and that's why everyone isn't
a millionaire because everyone wants to
be a millionaire but people are wait
aren't willing to work for it they're
not willing to subject themselves to the
things that they need to do in order to
become a millionaire and that too is
because once again gamers would rather
waste time doing nothing than waste time
doing something that may not work so you
would rather play video games for an
entire year then take a step forward to
becoming a millionaire because that may
not work out and that's because it's
based in a desire so if you want to get
away from that you have to base it in a
value facing it in a value is the same
thing as finding a competing interest is
the same thing as finding your Dharma
because if we think about you know like
if I need a million dollars to like pay
for my kids cancer treatment like that's
a different thing you know which
American health care system aside so
it changes the way that you you act and
it changes the way that you think and it
changes the most important thing is it
changes daughter might changes your
tolerance for pain it allows you to
choose things that are uncomfortable and
suck when I want call for 24 hours like
that sucks but I do it and I do it
willingly because like I realize that
there were like people here that I have
to like take care of and if I don't take
care of them like no one's gonna take
care of them
so it's gotta be me and so that's what
thought amaz so the issue is that you
guys need to find your autonomy because
if you can find your Dharma then
everything else becomes side quests like
the problem is that like like losing
weight is not a main quest
it's a side quest and the problem is
that you treat it like a main quest like
all I'm doing in my life is losing
weight no man that's a side quest making
money side quest losing weight side
quests getting healthy side quest the
problem is like no one has a main quest
that's what you need you need the main
quest because in order to fulfill the
main quest you've got to lose weight you
got to make money like that's how it
works right like in a game you go and
you get this piece of gear the side
quest to get the piece of gear doesn't
actually that's not winning the game
it's just you need to beat this boss and
you need a piece of gear so you need a
main quest and that's what anima is duty
responsibility that's like what a main
quest is in an RPG right that's not
that's not like an analogy that's like
the Dharma of the protagonist is the
main quest that's how it works and like
you just think about like what they do
right like they they withstand all kinds
of pain and suffering because it's like
so you guys have you like the ultimate
main quest and the ultimate Dharma is
Frodo in the ring Frodo in the ring you
guys need to go to Mordor and like drop
the ring and it's like it's painful and
it sucks and it's terrible and you're
gonna be thirsty and you're willing to
do it because it's the main quest
because that's your tournament that's
what like the Lord of the Rings is a
story about Dharma but the problem yeah
where does your Sam was
I don't think you guys realize this
you're looking at your Samwise
I am you're Samwise that's what I'm
doing I'm samurais I'm not Gandalf I'm
Sam wise right I'm here to help you
I'm helping you this is what I'm doing
I'm carrying your pack you're sitting
there whining about how you're hungry
and you want strawberries and stuff like
that and I'm keeping your spirits up and
inside I'm raging at you and want to
throttle e because you're such a whiny
little Hobbit but I mean yeah so I guess
I'm not the actual hero so maybe I'm not
the same wise but yeah so like I'm I'm
one of the members of the fellowship so
I'm helping you guys out but y'all have
to carry the ring like you've got to
carry it to Mordor I can't carry it to
Mordor for you